CHILD'S OWN BOOK
                          _of Great Musicians_
                                 HANDEL

                             [Illustration]

                                  _By_
                             THOMAS TAPPER

                          THEODORE PRESSER CO.
                          1712 CHESTNUT STREET
                              PHILADELPHIA




                             [Illustration]

                         Directions for Binding


Enclosed in this envelope is the cord and the needle with which to bind
this book. Start in from the outside as shown on the diagram here. Pass
the needle and thread through the center of the book, leaving an end
extend outside, then through to the outside, about 2 inches from the
center; then from the outside to inside 2 inches from the center at the
other end of the book, bringing the thread finally again through the
center, and tie the two ends in a knot, one each side of the cord on the
outside.


                 THEO. PRESSER CO., Pub's., Phila., Pa.




                          HOW TO USE THIS BOOK


This book is one of a series known as the CHILD'S OWN BOOK OF GREAT
MUSICIANS, written by Thomas Tapper, author of "Pictures from the Lives
of the Great Composers for Children," "Music Talks with Children,"
"First Studies in Music Biography," and others.

The sheet of illustrations included herewith is to be cut apart by the
child, and each illustration is to be inserted in its proper place
throughout the book, pasted in the space containing the same number as
will be found under each picture on the sheet. It is not necessary to
cover the entire back of a picture with paste. Put it only on the
corners and place neatly within the lines you will find printed around
each space. Use photographic paste, if possible.

After this play-work is completed there will be found at the back of the
book blank pages upon which the child is to write his own story of the
great musician, based upon the facts and questions found on the previous
pages.

The book is then to be sewed by the child through the center with the
cord found in the enclosed envelope. The book thus becomes the child's
own book.

This series will be found not only to furnish a pleasing and interesting
task for the children, but will teach them the main facts with regard to
the life of each of the great musicians--an educational feature worth
while.

                   *       *       *       *       *

This series of the Child's Own Book of Great Musicians includes at
present a book on each of the following:

    Bach                    Grieg                   Mozart
    Beethoven               Handel                  Nevin
    Brahms                  Haydn                   Schubert
    Chopin                  Liszt                   Schumann
    Dvorák                  MacDowell               Tschaikowsky
    Foster                  Mendelssohn             Verdi
                                                    Wagner




                         [Illustration: No. 1]

                         [Illustration: No. 5]

                         [Illustration: No. 12]

                         [Illustration: No. 3]

                         [Illustration: No. 13]

                         [Illustration: No. 15]

                         [Illustration: No. 7]

                         [Illustration: No. 8]

                         [Illustration: No. 9]

                         [Illustration: No. 2]

                         [Illustration: No. 11]

                         [Illustration: No. 10]

                         [Illustration: No. 14]

                         [Illustration: No. 4]

                         [Illustration: No. 6]




                                 Handel

                       The Story of a Little Boy
                       Who Practiced in an Attic

                         This Book was made by

                         _____________________


                              Philadelphia
                          Theodore Presser Co.
                           1712 Chestnut Str.

                  Copyright, 1916, by THEO. PRESSER CO.
                           Printed in U.S.A.




                     [Illustration: No. 1
                     Cut the picture of Handel from
                     the sheet of pictures. Paste in here.
                     Write the composer's name
                     below and the dates also.]


                   ..................................

                                  BORN


                   ..................................

                                  DIED


                   ..................................




          The Story of a Little Boy Who Practiced in an Attic


When we read about the great composers we learn that they come from all
kinds of families.

Bach's parents were poor. Mendelssohn's were rich. Schubert's father was
a schoolmaster. Mozart's father was a violinist.

The story which you are to read in this book and then write out in your
own words is about a boy whose parents were neither well-to-do nor well
known.

His name is George Frederick Handel. In Germany where Handel was born
his name was Georg Friedrich Händel (pronounced Gay-org Freed-riesh
Hayn-del). But the great composer spent so much of his life in England
that people now use the English form of his name.

                          [Illustration: No. 2
                          HANDEL'S BIRTHPLACE.]

Look at this queer old house where the great master was born.

Handel was born in the same year as Johann Sebastian Bach, 1685.

The father was a surgeon and barber, a queer combination. We know that
he did not like music, and that he was unwilling for his son to study
it. Of the mother we know little. But we do know that she loved her
little George Frederick, and helped him as far as she could.

The father was so determined that his son should not study music that he
refused to let him go to school. He feared, no doubt, that the boy would
soon learn to read notes.

But with the mother it was quite different. She observed the little
boy's love of music.

In the Handel home there was a big roomy attic; the ceiling was low, and
the windows had thick panes; the walls and floors were built of heavy
timber, and silence reigned there.

                          [Illustration: No. 3
               THE CHILD HANDEL PRACTICING IN THE ATTIC.]

"Here," said Mother Handel, "my little boy can play the harpsichord to
his heart's content and no one will be the wiser." You can imagine the
surprise when the stern barber-surgeon stalked into the attic, followed
by the family, holding high the lantern.

After that it may have been agreed that the boy should practice a
little; not, however, that he might become a musician. "No, indeed," we
may imagine Father Handel exclaiming, "my son shall be a famous lawyer."

One day when little George was seven years old his father set out by
coach to visit another son, who was in the service of the Duke of
Saxe-Weissenfels. The little boy begged his father to let him go on the
journey. "No," he replied, "you are too young to go so far."

However, when the coach set out George Frederick set out too on foot to
follow, and he would not be sent home again.

                          [Illustration: No. 4
                 HANDEL FOLLOWING HIS FATHER'S COACH.]

He kept on trudging along as fast as his little feet would go. Every one
hoped he would get tired and go back, but finally the father had to
order the coach to stop and take him in. Thus did he show that
determination which helped him all his life.

Arrived at the castle the boy soon made friends with the chapel
musicians. They took him to the organ loft, where he played for them.

All were delighted with his talent. One day the Duke himself heard him
play. He, too, was astonished that one so young should show so much
skill. Calling the father into his presence, he pointed out how wrong it
was to deny the boy the right to study music. "The world," he said,
"should have the good of your son's great ability."

At the Cathedral in Handel's home city, Halle, there was a famous
organist named Zachau. He became the boy's teacher. They must have had a
busy time together, for he had lessons from Zachau not only in organ
playing, but in harmony, counterpoint, canon, and fugue; and in
hautbois, violin, and harpsichord playing.

If you will look at this picture of the harpsichord on which Handel
played, you will see that it is unlike the grand piano of our day. How
does it differ? And yet for this simple instrument Handel wrote
beautiful music. Some day you will play his Little Fugues and some of
the dances from the Suites.

                          [Illustration: No. 5
                          HANDEL HARPSICHORD.]

Handel studied with Zachau for three years. The teacher said one day,
"The boy knows more than I do." So he was sent to Berlin, when he was
eleven years old, to find other teachers.

Here he met two famous men, Buononcini and Ariosti. The former was harsh
and unkind to him, but Ariosti treated him kindly and encouraged him.
They all met again in later years in London.

When Handel was twelve years old his father died. From that time on he
worked hard to perfect himself in his profession. He became organist at
Halle, but soon left there for Hamburg, which at that time was renowned
for its music.

Here Handel began to work his way, making many friends, one of whom was
the famous Johann Mattheson. One day Handel and Mattheson went by coach
to Lubeck, where, at one of the churches, an organist was wanted.
Mattheson wished to try for the position, but when he learned he would
have to marry the daughter of the old organist he and Handel came back
to Hamburg heart free. This is a fine old picture of Handel's friend,
Johann Mattheson.

                          [Illustration: No. 6
                              MATTHESON.]

Though Handel went to Hamburg an unknown boy, he soon became famous.
Here he wrote sacred music and his first operas.

In his twenty-second year Handel went to Italy, where he stayed for
three years. Here he met and became very friendly with Corelli and the
two Scarlattis.

                          [Illustration: No. 7
                              A. CORELLI.]

                          [Illustration: No. 8
                             A. SCARLATTI.]

                          [Illustration: No. 9
                             D. SCARLATTI.]

After his residence in Italy Handel went back to Germany, where he met
the Elector of Hanover, who induced him to accept the post of
Capellmeister. Handel agreed to do this on condition that he might first
visit England.

When Handel reached England he found himself already well known there.
The English people knew his operas, and liked them so much that Handel
concluded to stay.

But to his surprise and confusion it happened while he was in London
that the very Elector of Hanover became George I, King of England.
Handel expected he would fare badly with the king for not having
returned as Capellmeister to Germany. But a friend arranged the matter
so that Handel should compose some music for the king's coronation,
hoping thereby to please his majesty.

He composed twenty-five pieces, called _Water Music_. A boat containing
the players followed that in which the king sat. When the music was
performed the king asked who composed it. This led to Handel's being
invited into the royal boat, where he again won the king's favor.

                         [Illustration: No. 10
                             WATER MUSIC.]

Handel greatly wished to give opera in London and devote his time to it
as composer. For many years the writing and staging of operas took all
of Handel's time and thought, but he was not destined to make it a true
success. Handel was a very fine performer at the keyboard.

                         [Illustration: No. 11
                        HANDEL AT THE KEYBOARD.]

Once again Handel visited his native land. On returning to England,
which was to be his home for the future, he was asked by a wealthy
gentleman, the Duke of Chandos, to become composer at the ducal
residence. Handel accepted this offer and composed much beautiful music,
which some day we shall hear.

Handel was much beloved in England and was received at court.

                         [Illustration: No. 12
           HANDEL IN THE DRESS HE WORE AT THE ENGLISH COURT.]

He had tried hard to please the English public as an opera composer, and
the disappointment of his failure caused him a severe illness from
which he suffered greatly. He lived to write some of the most lovely
music the world possesses.

Perhaps the most famous of all his oratorios is the _Messiah_. When this
was sung for the first time in London the king and all present rose at
the words--_For the Lord God Omnipotent Reigneth_. Thus came the custom
of rising at the singing of the _Hallelujah Chorus_.

Handel loved England and became a naturalized British subject. He had a
house in London, which in those days must have been considered a very
fine one. He was very fond of gathering bodies of musicians together.
Here he is in a familiar group.

                         [Illustration: No. 13
                HANDEL IN THE CIRCLE OF HIS MUSICIANS.]

A great lover of children, Handel once conducted the _Messiah_ for the
benefit of a hospital for little children, to which he gave large sums.

Toward the end of his life he became blind. Some one had to lead him to
the organ loft, where, with his wonderful skill, he could still charm
and delight.

The last appearance that Handel made in public was to conduct the
_Messiah_. A few days later, on Good Friday, April 13, 1759, he passed
away.

                          [Illustration: No. 14
                 BLIND HANDEL BEING LED TO THE ORGAN.]

The English people loved and admired him so much that he was buried in
Westminster Abbey.


                           FACTS ABOUT HANDEL

Read these facts about Handel, and from them make up the story of his
life. Use your own words. After your teacher has read it, copy the story
on pages 15 and 16 of this book.

1. He was born in Halle in Germany, February 23, 1685.

2. His full name was George Frederick Handel.

3. His father was a barber and surgeon, who intended his son to become a
lawyer.

4. As a little boy he practiced the harpsichord in the garret.

5. Once he went with his father to the home of the Duke of
Saxe-Weissenfels.

6. Here he played the organ and won the Duke's attention.

7. The Duke advised the father to let the boy study music.

8. His first teacher was Zachau, who taught him many things, including
organ and harpsichord playing.

9. After a few years with Zachau he went to Berlin, and there met two
famous men.

10. Then he returned to Halle, but after his father's death he went to
Hamburg.

11. At Hamburg he and Johann Mattheson became good friends.

12. He lived in Italy for three years.

13. Returning to Germany he agreed to become Capellmeister to the
Elector of Hanover.

14. But he failed to keep his promise to the Elector by overstaying his
leave of absence in London.

15. The Elector became King of England. He was very angry at Handel for
disobeying him.

16. Handel won his friendship again by writing the _Water Music_ for a
royal boat procession on the river Thames.

17. For many years Handel composed operas, but finally he won fame by
writing oratorios.

18. He wrote the _Messiah_ and many others well known to-day.

19. He became blind toward the end of his life.

20. He died on Good Friday, 1759.


                      SOME QUESTIONS ABOUT HANDEL

1. In what year was Handel born?

2. What other great composer was born the same year in Germany?

3. What was the profession of Handel's father?

4. How did it come about that Handel was allowed to study music?

5. Who was Handel's first teacher?

6. What subjects did he study with his teacher?

7. What instruments did Handel play?

8. In what other cities and countries did Handel live?

9. Of what country did he become a citizen?

10. Name some of the famous composers of the day whom Handel knew.

11. What kinds of music did Handel write?

12. What form of music is the _Messiah_?

13. What was the _Water Music_?

14. How did Handel come to write it?

15. When did Handel die and where was he buried?




                  THE STORY OF GEORGE FREDERICK HANDEL

Written by..............................................

On (date)...............................................


                         [Illustration: No. 15]




                          Transcriber's Notes:

Passages in italics are indicated by _underscores_.

In the list of composers in the instructions on how to use the book, the
"r with a hácek" in the name Dvorák was replaced with a regular "r".

On page 3, "Johann Christian Bach" was replaced with "Johann Sebastian
Bach".

On page 17, "Water Music" was italicized.