Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









                            CHILD'S OWN BOOK
                          _of Great Musicians_
                                 LISZT


                             [Illustration]


                                  _By_
                             THOMAS TAPPER


                          THEODORE PRESSER CO.
                          1712 CHESTNUT STREET
                              PHILADELPHIA




                             [Illustration]

                         Directions for Binding


Enclosed in this envelope is the cord and the needle with which to bind
this book. Start in from the outside as shown on the diagram here. Pass
the needle and thread through the center of the book, leaving an end
extend outside, then through to the outside, about 2 inches from the
center; then from the outside to inside 2 inches from the center at the
other end of the book, bringing the thread finally again through the
center, and tie the two ends in a knot, one each side of the cord on the
outside.

                 THEO. PRESSER CO., Pub's., Phila., Pa.




                          HOW TO USE THIS BOOK


This book is one of a series known as the CHILD'S OWN BOOK OF GREAT
MUSICIANS, written by Thomas Tapper, author of "Pictures from the Lives
of the Great Composers for Children," "Music Talks with Children,"
"First Studies in Music Biography," and others.

The sheet of illustrations included herewith is to be cut apart by the
child, and each illustration is to be inserted in its proper place
throughout the book, pasted in the space containing the same number as
will be found under each picture on the sheet. It is not necessary to
cover the entire back of a picture with paste. Put it only on the
corners and place neatly within the lines you will find printed around
each space. Use photographic paste, if possible.

After this play-work is completed there will be found at the back of the
book blank pages upon which the child is to write his own story of the
great musician, based upon the facts and questions found on the previous
pages.

The book is then to be sewed by the child through the center with the
cord found in the enclosed envelope. The book thus becomes the child's
own book.

This series will be found not only to furnish a pleasing and interesting
task for the children, but will teach them the main facts with regard to
the life of each of the great musicians--an educational feature worth
while.

                   *       *       *       *       *

This series of the Child's Own Book of Great Musicians includes at
present a book on each of the following:

            Bach                            MacDowell
            Beethoven                       Mendelssohn
            Brahms                          Mozart
            Chopin                          Schubert
            Grieg                           Schumann
            Handel                          Tschaikowsky
            Haydn                           Verdi
            Liszt                           Wagner

                        Printed in U. S. A.




[Illustration: Transcriber's note: First page of illustrations: 1-11 and
13]




[Illustration: Transcriber's note: First page of illustrations: 12 and
14-21]




                               Franz Liszt

                     The Story of a Boy Who Became
                      a Great Pianist and Teacher


                         This Book Was Made by


                  -----------------------------------


                              Philadelphia
                          Theodore Presser Co.
                           1712 Chestnut Str.


                  COPYRIGHT 1921, BY THEO. PRESSER CO.
                       British Copyright Secured




                  [Illustration: No. 1
                  Cut the picture of Franz
                  Liszt from the picture
                  sheet. Paste in here.

                  Write full name and dates beneath.]

                  ....................................

                                  BORN

                  ....................................

                                  DIED

                  ....................................




                 The Story of a Boy Who Became a Great
                          Pianist and Teacher


This is the house in which was born a little boy who became a famous
pianist and a great teacher. This house is in Raiding, in Hungary.

                         [Illustration: No. 2
                  HOUSE IN WHICH FRANZ LISZT WAS BORN]

Now-a-days there is a little tablet over the door, which tells us that
Franz Liszt was born in this house, on the Twenty-second Day of October,
1811.

                          [Illustration: No. 3
                             JOSEPH HAYDN]

Do you remember that once upon a time Joseph Haydn lived as court
musician in the Esterhazy family? He wore a tie wig and a wonderful
bright uniform; for he was master of the music in that great house.

Now, long after Joseph Haydn's time, Adam Liszt, father of Franz, lived
with the Esterhazy's. He was the family steward, having charge of all
the property.

And, too, he loved music. So we may believe that he told his little boy,
Franz, about the great master Haydn. For Adam Liszt was not only a lover
of music but he gave his son his first lessons in piano playing. Liszt's
mother was of German blood. She was born in lower Austria.

                     [Illustration: No. 4 and No. 5
                       LISZT'S MOTHER AND FATHER]

Little Franz practiced so faithfully and so eagerly, I am sure, that
when he was only nine years of age he gave a concert in public. He
played so well that some good friends offered to send him to Vienna
where he could continue his studies.

And so the little boy left home and began the studies that led him to
become the greatest pianist of his time. His piano teacher was a man of
whom almost everybody knows. Does he not have a round, good-natured
face? And does he not look kind? Well, he could be severe when his
pupil's lessons did not please him.

His name was Carl Czerny. Here is his picture.

                         [Illustration: No. 6
                              CARL CZERNY]

On New Year's day of the year that little Franz was eleven years old he
played in public in Vienna. It must have been a wonderful occasion. All
the great people were there; and among them was one who was greatest of
all, Beethoven.

                         [Illustration: No. 7
                               BEETHOVEN]

Then Adam Liszt thought his boy should go to Paris. He wished him to
become a student in the conservatory there. But its director, Cherubini,
refused to admit Franz to the classes. So, like most of us, he studied
with a private teacher. Also, he traveled to England and to all the
countries of Europe, giving concerts. His fame was becoming greater and
his playing was the delight of all who heard him. Here are two pictures
of Franz as a boy. He dressed differently from boys of to-day. But do
you not think his face is a fine one? Full of light and life and
eagerness?

                     [Illustration: No. 8 and No. 9
                            LISZT AS A BOY]

Franz was only sixteen years old when his father died. They had been
good comrades, had traveled together and talked with one another about
music and musicians. The boy must have grieved keenly over the loss of
so good and kind a companion as his father had been. But he went
earnestly to work to earn a living for his mother and himself. He knew
many famous people and we may be sure that everyone helped him. Here are
two of Franz's friends of that time.

                         [Illustration: No. 10
                              VICTOR HUGO]

                         [Illustration: No. 11
                               F. CHOPIN]

                         [Illustration: No. 12
                             AT THE PIANO]

I am sure you will like to know how Liszt looked as he sat at the piano.
Here he sits playing. You see he had only a simple kind of piano. But he
mastered it so thoroughly that he could make people wonder at his art.
That is what we learn from the lives of famous people. They are always
true to their talent.

After Liszt had traveled many years over Europe (he never visited the
United States), he became conductor at the Court Theatre at Weimar. This
new music work interested him so much that he gave up travel as a
concert pianist. He helped many composers by having their operas
performed at the Weimar Theatre. Some of the operas that had their first
performance there are now famous indeed.

Among these were "Lohengrin," "Tannhauser" and "The Flying Dutchman" by
Richard Wagner.

                         [Illustration: No. 13
                               R. WAGNER]

                         [Illustration: No. 14
                              R. SCHUMANN]

                         [Illustration: No. 15
                              F. SCHUBERT]

Then there were "Genoveva" and "Manfred" by Robert Schumann. Also
"Alfonzo and Estrella" by Franz Schubert was given. It would have
delighted Schubert's heart if he could have heard this; but he, poor
man, had died some years before.

Then Liszt did something else at Weimar that endeared him to hosts of
pianists. He held classes and taught the secrets of his wonderful
playing to those who were talented and could understand. He was the soul
of generosity. When someone, who was gifted but could not pay, came for
advice, he gave it freely. When concerts did not pay, he himself often
took the loss so that others should not suffer.

Is it not wonderful to think of a man, so loved by the public, giving
with such great generosity? Truly it is better to give than to receive.

           [Illustration: No. 16 LISZT AND SOME FAMOUS PUPILS
           S. Liebling - Rosenthal - Liszt - Dora - Peterson
               Siloti - Ans der Ohe - Sauer - Gottschlag
                        Friedheim - Reisenauer]

All good and wonderful things live on forever. Even though Liszt moved
from Weimar, spending his last years in Budapest, Rome and elsewhere, he
was not idle. There was always a circle of people about him. And always
his full-hearted, generous nature kept him at work for the good of
others. He reminds us of Beethoven who once said, "Composing is a
capital thing. For instance if a friend is in distress and I have no
money at hand to help him, I can sit down and compose something which I
can sell and so relieve him." It seems that Franz Liszt thought the same
for he was forever helping someone else.

We have already seen how Liszt looked as he sat at the piano (see
picture No. 12). This is Liszt at the conductor's stand. Do you see his
baton and the score on the desk? And the position of the left hand? When
Liszt conducted the orchestra the players watched every movement of his
hands and every look of his eyes so as to play just as he desired.

                         [Illustration: No. 17
                          LISZT AS CONDUCTOR]

Franz Liszt was kind to all people who came to him. There was one
musician, however, for whom he did a great deal. You know him for he
composed many operas. One of them is called "Parsifal." Another is "The
Flying Dutchman." Place his picture here and write his name beneath.

                         [Illustration: No. 18]

Some day the operas of Richard Wagner will give you great pleasure. At
first they were not liked by the public. Wagner had few friends and his
life was very hard. But Franz Liszt believed in him and in his work. And
so he helped him.

At first Wagner did not like Liszt. He once said, "I never repeated my
first call on Liszt." By this he meant that he wished the acquaintance
to end. When Liszt realized that Wagner did not care to understand him,
he tried his best to keep the friendship secure. Liszt never wished to
misunderstand another human being. So, it was not long before Wagner's
opinion of Liszt changed, for he said, later, "Through the love of this
rarest friend I gained a real home for my art."

                         [Illustration: No. 19
                             LISZT'S HAND]

There is one thing true for us all. We carry our early thoughts along
with us all through life. The friends we make from youth and the
thoughts we think from youth are always at hand to bless us if we have
done wisely.

Once when little Franz was thirteen years old he played before the
English King, George IV. Sixty years later we see him again, once more
the guest of the English people.

It is pleasant to think of Liszt meeting again and again the friends of
his boyhood. When he went to England, on this occasion, he was quite an
old man. As he stepped out upon the stage to play, for the last time,
everybody, even the people outside of the hall, who could not get in,
shouted themselves hoarse. Those within rose to greet him with tears and
cheers that are given only to the kings of the earth.

                         [Illustration: No. 20
                          LISZT IN LATER LIFE]

While we know of this artist chiefly as a great pianist, we shall learn,
as we grow older, that he was a great composer as well. He wrote music
for piano, for orchestra, for the voice. There are symphonies, masses,
oratorios and cantatas. Once, as a boy, he met Franz Schubert in Vienna.
In later years he arranged many of Schubert's songs in a truly
beautiful way for the piano,--songs like the "Erl King," "Thou Art My
Peace," "Hark, Hark the Lark."

So we may end by saying that Franz Liszt was a great man who remained
simple and big-hearted all his life, and one whom the world loved for
what he did.

                         [Illustration: No. 21
                         LISZT'S HAND WRITING]


                   *       *       *       *       *


                        FACTS ABOUT FRANZ LISZT

Read these facts about Franz Liszt and try to make a story about him, in
your own language.

When your story is done, and you have improved it all you can, copy it
in pages 14, 15, and 16 of this book.

1. Franz Liszt was born in Raiding, in Hungary.

2. His birthday is October 22, 1811.

3. His father was his first teacher.

4. He studied piano in Vienna with Carl Czerny.

5. Then he went to Paris.

6. Among Liszt's boyhood friends were Beethoven, Schubert and Chopin.

7. After many years as a concert pianist, Liszt became opera conductor
at Weimar.

8. He brought out many of the operas of Richard Wagner.

9. He was a great teacher of piano, and many people from Europe and from
the United States studied with him.

10. He composed many fine works.

11. Among them are arrangements of many of Schubert's songs.

12. Liszt died in Rome in 1886. He was seventy-five years old.

13. Liszt wrote the life of his friend Frederic Chopin.

14. It has been said that no musician ever lived who did so much for
others as Franz Liszt.


                   *       *       *       *       *


                            SOME QUESTIONS.


1. When and where was Franz Liszt born?

2. Who was his first teacher?

3. What was his father's occupation? In what family did he live?

4. Where was his mother born?

5. With whom did Franz study piano in Vienna?

6. What famous musician did he meet in Vienna?

7. Name two or three people whom he met in Paris.

8. What great composer of opera did he assist?

9. Name some operas that Liszt produced at Weimar.

10. In what Italian city did Liszt live?

11. Whose songs did he arrange for piano?

12. What great musician's life was written by Franz Liszt?

13. When and where did Franz Liszt die?




                        THE STORY OF FRANZ LISZT

        Written by .............................................

        On (date)  .............................................

                         [Illustration: No. 22]




                          Transcriber's Notes:

This book has inconsistencies in the names, sometimes anglicizing names
and sometimes not. These inconsistencies were not corrected.

Passages in italics were indicated by _underscores_.

Passages in small caps were replaced with ALL CAPS.

On page 16, a comma was added after "everybody".